# Recommender System Techniques

Welcome to the Recommender System Techniques repository! This collection of practical Python code focuses on various techniques for building recommender systems. Gain insights into different approaches to enhance user experience and engagement. The repository is organized into four main folders:

## 1. Popularity Based (Non-Personalized)

In this folder, explore a non-personalized recommender system leveraging the popularity of movies. Recommendations are based on the damped mean formula, allowing users to discover popular movies without personalization.

## 2. Correlation Based (Collaborative Filtering)

Dive into collaborative filtering techniques in this folder. Recommendations are made by analyzing user rating correlations for movies. Discover movies that align with users' preferences through collaborative filtering.

## 3. Nearest Neighbor Based (Collaborative Filtering)

This folder introduces a collaborative filtering technique based on nearest neighbors. Recommendations are generated by identifying movies with similar user ratings, providing personalized suggestions based on user behavior.

## 4. Tfidf Based (Content-Based Filtering)

Explore content-based filtering techniques in this folder, where recommendations are derived from the movie's short description. Utilizing TF-IDF and a sigmoid kernel, the system suggests movies that align with the textual content, offering a personalized touch.

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RaflyQowi/Applying-Various-RecSys.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the desired folder of interest and explore the Python scripts to understand the implementation details of each recommender system technique.

Feel free to adapt the code for your own projects or use it as a reference to enhance your understanding of recommender system methodologies. If you have any questions or suggestions, please open an issue or reach out.

Happy recommending! 🎬🍿
